stack readme blog post (#1498)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/stack-readme/index.md

# properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for yourself
# if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - devon-grove
    - myles-haynes
    - casey-huang
    - meagan-cojocar

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/blob/master/BLOGGING.md.
# for additional details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

Starting today, users can create [Stack READMEs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/projects-and-stacks/#stack-readme) in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs). Stack READMEs interpolate output variables on the stack (`${outputs.instances[0].ARN}`) so that each stack can construct links to dashboards, shell commands, and other pieces of documentation. All of this content stays up to date as you stand up new stacks, rename resources, and refactor your infrastructure.

<!--more-->

> There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), however, is spread across many tools. Our [User Experience team](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/get-to-know-pulumis-ux-team) ecently conducted user interviews and we repeatedly heard about users moving across many tools and web apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and keep relevant Stack information in one place that is kept up to date automatically.

Reviewer: `ecently` should be `recently`

> There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), however, is spread across many tools. Our [User Experience team](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/get-to-know-pulumis-ux-team) ecently conducted user interviews and we repeatedly heard about users moving across many tools and web apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and keep relevant Stack information in one place that is kept up to date automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), however, is spread across many tools. Our [User Experience team](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/get-to-know-pulumis-ux-team) recently conducted user interviews and we repeatedly heard about users moving across many tools and web apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and keep relevant Stack information in one place that is kept up to date automatically.
```

> There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), however, is spread across many tools. Our [User Experience team](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/get-to-know-pulumis-ux-team) recently conducted user interviews and we repeatedly heard about users moving across many tools and web apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and keep relevant Stack information in one place that is kept up to date automatically.

Reviewer 2: > , however, is spread across many tools.

Lost a word or two here. Maybe:

There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), but critical information is spread across many tools

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary (one or two sentences)
# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or social-media
# previews. This field is required or the build will fail the linter test.
meta_desc: Starting today you can add a README to your Pulumi Service Stacks to store key links, CLI commands and documentation.

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the `id`
# properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for yourself
# if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - devon-grove
    - myles-haynes
    - casey-huang
    - meagan-cojocar

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/blob/master/BLOGGING.md.
# for additional details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

> Starting today, users can create [Stack READMEs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/projects-and-stacks/#stack-readme) in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs). Stack READMEs interpolate output variables on the stack (`${outputs.instances[0].ARN}`) so that each stack can construct links to dashboards, shell commands, and other pieces of documentation. All of this content stays up to date as you stand up new stacks, rename resources, and refactor your infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: I think the 2nd sentence is really hard to understand especially for the first paragraph. I would just use plain English to explain what is happening here. (I think you are saying you can add variables from outputs and put them into a readme. For example you can create links to certain dashboards based on IDs from Datadog...)

<!--more-->

> There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), but critical information is spread across many tools. Our [User Experience team](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/get-to-know-pulumis-ux-team) recently conducted user interviews and we repeatedly heard about users moving across many tools and web apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and keep relevant Stack information in one place that is kept up to date automatically.

Reviewer 3: I am still not understanding how the UX studies and what they heard is relevant here. I almost feel like you should either back up and explain the problem or go into more depth what you mean by "many tools and web apps to manage their deployments". I think there is something buried in there that makes it hard to outright understand how this feature works

Reviewer 4: i also did not understand this connection. @meagancojocar are you referring to the insight that people need to have a strong need in order to be willing to change to a different context? or another insight?

Author: Removed this detail to improve clarity :)

# the date this file was generated. Posts with future dates are visible in development,
# but excluded from production builds. Use the time and timezone-offset portions of
# of this value to schedule posts for publishing later.
date: 2022-05-16T14:35:01-07:00

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary (one or two sentences)
# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or social-media
# previews. This field is required or the build will fail the linter test.
meta_desc: Starting today you can add a README to your Pulumi Service Stacks to store key links, CLI commands and documentation.

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the `id`
# properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for yourself
# if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - devon-grove
    - myles-haynes
    - casey-huang

>     - meagan-cojocar

Reviewer 5: Love all the authors! :smile:

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/blob/master/BLOGGING.md.
# for additional details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

> 

Reviewer 5: Minor - but I tend to like having a sentence or paragraph that sets up the opportunity.

In this case, I think it's along the lines of "Each Pulumi Stack you deploy manages a key set of cloud infrastructure for your organization.  The Pulumi Console includes a variety of features for exposing key information about your stack for all other users within your organization - configuration, outputs, resources under management, deep links to cloud providers, and a graph of all resources.  However, it's often useful to allow the author of a Pulumi stack to describe in their own words the key elements of a stack so that future viewers can quickly understand the components and cloud resources that are managed."  (Could be worded much better :-) - but something along those lines).

Reviewer 5: I do see you you have something along these lines a few paragraphs in.  Perhaps okay to leave that as is.  Or include both.  Up to you!

Starting today, users can create [Stack READMEs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/projects-and-stacks/#stack-readme) in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs). A README is a text file that introduces and explains a project. A Pulumi Service Stack README can contain documentation and common links for the Stack.

<!--more-->

The key difference between a source control README, such as a GitHub README, and a Pulumi Service Stack README, is that it is dynamically populated with details from your stack outputs. It does this by interpolating output variables on the stack (`${outputs.instances[0].ARN}`) so that each stack can construct links to dashboards, shell commands, and other pieces of documentation. All of this content stays up to date as you stand up new stacks, rename resources, and refactor your infrastructure.

> There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), but critical information is spread across many tools. We have heard from our users that it can be time consuming switching from different tools and web apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and keep relevant Stack information in one place that is kept up to date automatically.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), but critical information is spread across many tools. We have heard from our users that it can be time consuming switching from different tools and web apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are reducing this friction and keeping relevant Stack information in one place so that is kept up to date automatically.
```

```markdown
# Pulumi Service README

[Sign in to AWS to view stack resources!](https://top-secret-url.com)
​
## On Call Operations
​
### Monitor
​
**Cloudwatch Metrics**
Monitor holistic metrics tracking overall service health
[Link](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/home?region=us-west-2#dashboards:name=${outputs.dashboardName})

**RDS Performance Metrics**
Monitor RDS performance (wait times, top queries)
[Link](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home?region=us-west-2#performance-insights-v20206:/resourceId/${database.databaseCluster.id}/resourceName/${outputs.rdsClusterWriterInstance})

**Cloudwatch Logs**
Search across service logs
[Link](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/home?region=us-west-2#logStream:group=${outputs.cloudwatchLogGroup})
```

## How to add a Stack README to your Stack

In order to add a README to your Pulumi Stack, you will need to do the following:

### Step 1

> Export a Stack output named `readme` that contains your templated Stack README markdown, commonly by reading a file, i.e. `Pulumi.README.md`.

Reviewer 5: Perhaps hyperlink "Stack output" to the docs?

date: 2022-05-11T14:35:01-07:00

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary (one or two sentences)
# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or social-media
# previews. This field is required or the build will fail the linter test.
meta_desc: Starting today you can add a README to your Pulumi Service Stacks to store key links, CLI commands and documentation.

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the `id`
# properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for yourself
# if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - devon-grove
    - myles-haynes
    - casey-huang

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/blob/master/BLOGGING.md.
# for additional details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

> Starting today, users can create Stack READMEs in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that are dynamically updated based on Stack Outputs. Stacks can now have a customizable README where users can add links to dashboards, metrics, architecture diagrams, notes, links to runbooks, and so on- whatever your team uses frequently for that Stack that you want to collect all in one spot.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting today, users can create Stack READMEs in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com/) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs). Stack READMEs interpolate output variables on the stack (${outputs.instances[0].ARN}) so that each stack can construct links to dashboards, shell commands, and other pieces of documentation. All of this content stays up to date as you stand up new stacks, rename resources, and refactor your infrastructure.
```

# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the `id`
# properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for yourself
# if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - devon-grove
    - myles-haynes
    - casey-huang

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/blob/master/BLOGGING.md.
# for additional details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

Starting today, users can create Stack READMEs in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs). Stack READMEs interpolate output variables on the stack (${outputs.instances[0].ARN}) so that each stack can construct links to dashboards, shell commands, and other pieces of documentation. All of this content stays up to date as you stand up new stacks, rename resources, and refactor your infrastructure.

<!--more-->

> There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), however, the information for these activities live across many places. Our [User Experience team](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/get-to-know-pulumis-ux-team) recently conducted user experience interviews with our customers and we learned users are moving across many web apps and local apps to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and collect relevant Stack information in one place.

Reviewer 2: There are a lot of operational activities that happen around [Pulumi Stacks](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack), however, the information for these activities is spread across many tools. Our [User Experience team](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/get-to-know-pulumis-ux-team) recently conducted user interviews and we repeatedly heard about users are moving across many web apps and local tools to manage their deployments- from their cloud Console, to the Pulumi Service User Interface (UI), to the CLI, and so on. By collecting resource outputs in the Pulumi Service UI, we are aiming to ease this friction and keep relevant Stack information in one place that is kept up to date automatically.

> README templates can reference Stack outputs and resource properties, such as `${outputs.foo}`. To walk you through a tangible example, a user can deploy an RDS instance and then use a variable in their README template to link to their CloudWatch dashboard to keep an eye on operational metrics. This CloudWatch dashboard link will dynamically update when deployments happen. You can use the same README template across dev, testing and production and have the correct dashboard links for each Stack.

Reviewer 2: README templates can reference Stack outputs and resource properties, for example `${outputs.vpc.ARN}`

The new experience lives in the Stack page, which can be navigated to through Projects and clicking on the specific Stack you want to view the README for. Let's take a look at this new feature!

![Stack READMEs in the Pulumi Console](stack-readme.png)

To illustrate, let's look at the new Stack README for the Pulumi Service dev stack.

```markdown
# Pulumi Service README
​
[Sign in to AWS to view stack resources!](https://top-secret-url.com)
​
I am...
​
* [an on call engineer](#oncall)
* [monitoring a deployment](#cicd)
* [a new hire looking to onboard](#onboard)

> * [interested in querying for business insights](#insights)

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this block. These markdown links are not rendering as expected in the console

​
-----
​

> <a name="oncall"></a>

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this is valid markdown (or if it actually works in our rendering engine) let's remove it.

## On Call Operations
​
### Monitor
​
1. [Cloudwatch Metrics](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/home?region=us-west-2#dashboards:name=${outputs.dashboardName}): Monitor holistic metrics tracking overall service health
2. [RDS Performance Metrics](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home?region=us-west-2#performance-insights-v20206:/resourceId/${database.databaseCluster.id}/resourceName/${outputs.rdsClusterWriterInstance}): Monitor RDS performance (wait times, top queries)
3. [Cloudwatch Logs](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/home?region=us-west-2#logStream:group=${outputs.cloudwatchLogGroup}): Search across service logs
```

We have links to our AWS authentication tool, our CloudWatch metrics, to our production deployment documentation, and so on. The common places that we navigate to and from when managing this Stack.

In order to add a README to your Pulumi Stack, you will need to do the following:

> - Set Stack Output named `readme` to the value of your templated Stack README file, i.e.`Pulumi.README.md`.

Reviewer 2: Export a stack output named `readme` that contains your templated Stack README markdown, commonly by reading a file, i.e. `Pulumi.README.md`.
